docs/security-guidelines.md, before:

## Service Account

When an app is pushed with Eirini, the pods are assigned the default Service Account in `opi.namespace`. By default, when the cluster is deployed with `RBAC` authentication method, that Service Account should not have any read/write permissions to the Kubernetes API. Since `RBAC` is preferred to `ABAC`, we recommend using the former.

## Network policies

Apps pushed by Eirini currently cannot be accessed directly from another app container. This is accomplished by creating a [NetworkPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) resource in the namespace in which Eirini deploys apps.

In order to use network policies in your cluster, you must use a compatible container network plug-in, otherwise creating a `NetworkPolicy` resource will have no effect.

Both [IKS](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-network_policies) (is automatically setup) and [GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy#enabling_network_policy_enforcement) (has to be enabled) support a network plug-in called [Calico](https://www.projectcalico.org/), which supports defining network policies.

For other implementations of the Kubernetes networking model, take a look [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/networking/#how-to-implement-the-kubernetes-networking-model). Keep in mind that not all implementations support defining network polcies (e.g. Flannel). For a more detailed comparison between different plugins, take a look [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1qCOlor16Wp5mHd6MQxB5gUEQILnijyDLIExEpqmee2k/edit#gid=0) (not maintained by us).

## Application PodSecurityPolicy
_Note: For this section, ensure that PodSecurityPolicy support is enabled on your cluster. This is platform specific (e.g. in GKE this is not enabled by default)._

By default, Eirini attaches a specific Service Account to all application pods. This service account permissions can be found [here](../helm/eirini/templates/app-pod-security-policy.yaml) and they don't allow pods to be run with the root user. You can relax this limitation by doing the following steps:
1. Set the `allow_run_image_as_root` property in the Eirini ConfigMap to `true` by executing
```
kubectl edit configmap eirini -n <namespace-in-which-eirini-is-deployed>
```
2. Restart the Eirini pod so the new change can be applied.
```
kubectl delete pod <eirini-pod-name> -n <namespace-in-which-eirini-is-deployed>
```
3. Apply a more relaxed PodSecurityPolicy in the namespace in which eirini schedules applications.
Example of a relaxed PSP
```
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  annotations:
    seccomp.security.alpha.kubernetes.io/allowedProfileNames: runtime/default
    seccomp.security.alpha.kubernetes.io/defaultProfileName: runtime/default
  name: eirini-app-privileged-psp
  namespace: eirini
spec:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  fsGroup:
    rule: RunAsAny
  runAsUser:
    rule: RunAsAny
  seLinux:
    rule: RunAsAny
  supplementalGroups:
    rule: RunAsAny
```
4. Add the new privileged PSP to the default Service Account role by executing:
```
kubectl patch -n eirini role eirini-app-role --type='json' -p '[{"op":"add","path":"/rules/0/resourceNames/-","value":"eirini-app-privileged-psp"}]'
```

### Securing SCF endpoints

It is not possible to do it with native Kubernetes network policies. In order to achieve this, the CNI plugin can be used directly. If you're using [Calico](https://www.projectcalico.org/) on IBMCloud, you can run the following command:

```bash
calicoctl apply --config $CALICOCNF -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-scf-access
  namespace: eirini
spec:
  types:
  - Egress
  egress:
  - action: Deny
    source:
      selector: source_type == 'APP'
    destination:
      namespaceSelector: name == 'scf'
  - action: Allow
EOF
```

You can use [this](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/blog/configure-calicoctl-for-ibm-cloud-kubernetes-service) guide to export `$CALICOCNF` on IBM Cloud.

Note that GKE does not currently support creating custom Calico network policies.

### Securing Kubernetes API Endpoint

The Kubernetes API is available in all pods by default at `https://kubernetes.default`. Eirini does not mount
service account credentials to the pod and uses default service account in the namespace. This prevents Eirini pods from using Kubernetes API.
To completely disallow access to this from application instances, you'd need to apply this network policy:

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: eirini-egress-policy
  namespace: eirini
spec:
  egress:
  - to:
    - ipBlock:
        cidr: 0.0.0.0/0
        except:
        - <API IP Address>/32
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```

You can get IP address of the master by running `kubectl get endpoints` command. If there are multiple Kubernetes API nodes, IP address
of each of them would need to be specified in the `except` array.

Commit message:

Add section in the README about Staging Service Account
[#172001921]

Signed-off-by: Dimitris Karakasilis <dkarakasilis@suse.com>

docs/security-guidelines.md, after:

## Service Account

When an app is pushed with Eirini, the pods are assigned the default Service Account in `opi.namespace`. By default, when the cluster is deployed with `RBAC` authentication method, that Service Account should not have any read/write permissions to the Kubernetes API. Since `RBAC` is preferred to `ABAC`, we recommend using the former.

## Network policies

Apps pushed by Eirini currently cannot be accessed directly from another app container. This is accomplished by creating a [NetworkPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) resource in the namespace in which Eirini deploys apps.

In order to use network policies in your cluster, you must use a compatible container network plug-in, otherwise creating a `NetworkPolicy` resource will have no effect.

Both [IKS](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-network_policies) (is automatically setup) and [GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/network-policy#enabling_network_policy_enforcement) (has to be enabled) support a network plug-in called [Calico](https://www.projectcalico.org/), which supports defining network policies.

For other implementations of the Kubernetes networking model, take a look [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/networking/#how-to-implement-the-kubernetes-networking-model). Keep in mind that not all implementations support defining network polcies (e.g. Flannel). For a more detailed comparison between different plugins, take a look [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1qCOlor16Wp5mHd6MQxB5gUEQILnijyDLIExEpqmee2k/edit#gid=0) (not maintained by us).

## Staging PodSecurityPolicy

_Note: For this section, ensure that PodSecurityPolicy support is enabled on your cluster. This is platform specific (e.g. in GKE this is not enabled by default)._

By default, when staging is enabled Eirini attaches a specific Service Account to the staging pods. This Service Account permissions can be found [here](../helm/eirini/templates/staging-pod-security-policy.yaml). They allow the mounting of volumes because staging needs that capability. Mounting volumes is not allowed by the Application PodSecurityPolicy (see below).

## Application PodSecurityPolicy
_Note: For this section, ensure that PodSecurityPolicy support is enabled on your cluster. This is platform specific (e.g. in GKE this is not enabled by default)._

By default, Eirini attaches a specific Service Account to all application pods. This service account permissions can be found [here](../helm/eirini/templates/app-pod-security-policy.yaml) and they don't allow pods to be run with the root user. You can relax this limitation by doing the following steps:
1. Set the `allow_run_image_as_root` property in the Eirini ConfigMap to `true` by executing
```
kubectl edit configmap eirini -n <namespace-in-which-eirini-is-deployed>
```
2. Restart the Eirini pod so the new change can be applied.
```
kubectl delete pod <eirini-pod-name> -n <namespace-in-which-eirini-is-deployed>
```
3. Apply a more relaxed PodSecurityPolicy in the namespace in which eirini schedules applications.
Example of a relaxed PSP
```
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  annotations:
    seccomp.security.alpha.kubernetes.io/allowedProfileNames: runtime/default
    seccomp.security.alpha.kubernetes.io/defaultProfileName: runtime/default
  name: eirini-app-privileged-psp
  namespace: eirini
spec:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  fsGroup:
    rule: RunAsAny
  runAsUser:
    rule: RunAsAny
  seLinux:
    rule: RunAsAny
  supplementalGroups:
    rule: RunAsAny
```
4. Add the new privileged PSP to the default Service Account role by executing:
```
kubectl patch -n eirini role eirini-app-role --type='json' -p '[{"op":"add","path":"/rules/0/resourceNames/-","value":"eirini-app-privileged-psp"}]'
```

### Securing SCF endpoints

It is not possible to do it with native Kubernetes network policies. In order to achieve this, the CNI plugin can be used directly. If you're using [Calico](https://www.projectcalico.org/) on IBMCloud, you can run the following command:

```bash
calicoctl apply --config $CALICOCNF -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-scf-access
  namespace: eirini
spec:
  types:
  - Egress
  egress:
  - action: Deny
    source:
      selector: source_type == 'APP'
    destination:
      namespaceSelector: name == 'scf'
  - action: Allow
EOF
```

You can use [this](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/blog/configure-calicoctl-for-ibm-cloud-kubernetes-service) guide to export `$CALICOCNF` on IBM Cloud.

Note that GKE does not currently support creating custom Calico network policies.

### Securing Kubernetes API Endpoint

The Kubernetes API is available in all pods by default at `https://kubernetes.default`. Eirini does not mount
service account credentials to the pod and uses default service account in the namespace. This prevents Eirini pods from using Kubernetes API.
To completely disallow access to this from application instances, you'd need to apply this network policy:

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: eirini-egress-policy
  namespace: eirini
spec:
  egress:
  - to:
    - ipBlock:
        cidr: 0.0.0.0/0
        except:
        - <API IP Address>/32
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```

You can get IP address of the master by running `kubectl get endpoints` command. If there are multiple Kubernetes API nodes, IP address
of each of them would need to be specified in the `except` array.
